[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: The last thing I want
to do, I know we're over time, but
it's the last thing I want to do is I want
to show you a library that I wrote called
asynquence.
I talked about it
the beginning of the day.
Because there are some really
great things about promises, but
there are also some really not so
great things about them.
In that they don't go far enough
with some of their abstractions.
And I think the future of promises is
that most people will continue to use
promises with abstraction
libraries on top of them.
Promises are a really, really low level
mechanism and in some of your most
simple use cases, like for instance
this one, it's not too much difficult.
But when you start to get into
really complex, real-world code,
it starts to get really tedious to create
these promises all over the place and
to figure out how to manually
chain them together.
When you start thinking about more complex
tasks like, what if it's not this,
then this, then this?
What if it's this, and all of these
things, and then this thing and
then these two things and then this thing,
except go back and start,
what if you start having
those sorts of flow control?
Promises start to get really tedious.
And that's why there are promises
abstraction libraries to try to help
some of the tedium.
Try to take care of some
of that tedium for you.
There's a number of ones out there.
There's Async and Q and
several other ones.
I happen to have one that I think does
a pretty good job of making things simple
and it's called asynquence.
Asynquence stands for
asynchronous sequences.
So sequences are automatically
chained promises.
If you'll notice in our previous
promise examples, you had to manually
create a new promise and return it from
each step to keep the chain going.
Whereas in most cases, you could just
assume that somebody wants to keep going,
because there's always
another step in your task.
Most of the real world times,
it's a lot more than just one step.
So asynquence assumes it and
it automatically creates and
chains promises for you.
And here is a simple
distillation of the code.
You create yourself a sequence by
calling the constructor, the ASQ.
You have your then steps,
cuz it's just a series of then steps, but
you'll notice you don't have
to create promises here.
It automatically creates a promise for you
and it passes in the completion trigger.
So it assumes that you
are going to want to go on and
it creates the promise for you.
And you just need to make sure to
call the trigger at the proper time.
You don't have to do any of that
work of creating those promises for
these normal steps.
It's created them underneath the covers.
We also have the ability to do the other
primitive in asynchronous flow control
is what we call gates.
So sequences are this,
then this, then this, then this.
A gate says, two or more things
are gonna happen at the same time and
I don't care when they finish and
in what order,
I just wanna wait for
all of them to finish before I move on.
So it waits for
everybody to get to the gates,
an old school terminology from
processes and fork and stuff.
So asynquence lets you split from
a sequence into a gate step,
back into a sequence.
And you can ExPlus any arbitrary
complexity of flow control using
the asynquence API.
For example,
here's our little meaning of life example.
I have rather than returning a promise,
I return back a sequence.
Here I can do what's called a waterfall,
which does these things in order, but
it keeps track of the messages.
So, it calculates 10, sends that along.
It calculates 30 and it sends that along.
10 and 30 come in.
We then calculate the meaning of life
as x and y and we pass that one along.
So you can do the same
sort of message passing.
Just has a lot less work because you don't
have to create the promises every time.
>> Kyle Simpson: Finally
it was mentioned earlier,
what about generators and promises?
I think that generators plus promises
are actually the most popular
pattern that we're gonna move towards for
asynchronous flow control.
And I've got an API built into
asynquence that's handled natively.
It's called runner.
It allows you to pass in a generator and
yield out sequences or promises.
So it automatically,
this little runner utility,
when you yield it out it will
receive that promise, listen for
the promise to complete,
before it starts back up the generator.
So it'll automatically
continue to the end for you.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we would yield out
a promise or a sequence for getData.
And when that guy sends us the value
back in, then 10's gonna come back in.
Then we yield out another promise.
A second later, we get 30 back.
We finally yield out a third promise for
the string, and
a second later we get that answer back.
And we can return that answer,
which then gets passed along.
>> Kyle Simpson: Along the sequence chain.
>> Kyle Simpson: Finally,
I just wanna show you something cool,
cuz I just was starting
to experiment with this.
I actually think this and
unexplored territory here.
The idea of taking two or more generators
and interleaving their operation.
So runner actually allows you to specify
two or more generators, and what will
happen is the first time it yields, it'll
actually message pass to this generator.
And when this generator yields,
it will pass to the next one
in a round robin fashion.
So you can actually have these generators
running at the same time, starting and
stopping and
message passing to each other.
Which is gonna lead to all
kinds of powerful stuff.
This is called CSP,
communicating serial processes.
It's a really advanced model for
continuation style.